README.md, before:

# Qobuz-DL

A web-based music downloader for Qobuz with a modern UI and database storage for metadata management.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js application with React components
- **Backend Services** (`be/`): Core business logic and database operations
- **API Routes** (`app/api/`): REST endpoints for frontend-backend communication
- **Database**: SQLite with Drizzle ORM for metadata storage

## Getting Started

Before you can use Qobuz-DL, you need to change the .env file in the root directory. The default configuration will NOT work. QOBUZ_APP_ID and QOBUZ_SECRET must be set to the correct values. To find these you can use [this tool](https://github.com/QobuzDL/Qobuz-AppID-Secret-Tool). Additionally, in order to download files longer than 30 seconds, a valid Qobuz token is needed. This can be found in the localuser.token key of localstorage on the official [Qobuz website](https://play.qobuz.com/) for any paying members.
### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- Qobuz account credentials

### Installation

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env.local` file with your database configuration:

```env
DB_URL=file:./local.sqlite
DB_AUTH_TOKEN=your_token_if_using_remote_db
```

### Running the Application

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Usage

### 1. Download Metadata

Before downloading songs, you need to fetch and store metadata in the database.

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/store-music-metadata`

**Query Parameters**:
- `q` (required): Search query string

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/store-music-metadata?q=pink%20floyd"
```

**What it does**:
- Searches Qobuz for the given query
- Stores artists, albums, genres, labels, and tracks in the database
- Returns statistics about stored items
- Fetches up to 500 items per batch and continues until all results are processed

**Response**:
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "message": "Search results stored successfully",
    "stats": {
      "artists": 5,
      "genres": 3,
      "labels": 8,
      "albums": 25,
      "tracks": 250
    }
  }
}
```

### 2. Start Song Downloads

Once metadata is stored, you can start downloading the actual audio files.

#### Option A: Download Individual Tracks

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/download-tracks`

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/download-tracks"
```

**What it does**:
- Processes all tracks with `downloadStatus: "PENDING"` 
- Downloads each track individually to organized folders
- Updates track status to `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`

#### Option B: Download Complete Albums (Recommended)

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/download-albums`

**Body Parameters**:
- `albumCountToDownload` (required): Number of albums to process

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/download-albums" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"albumCountToDownload": 5}'
```

**What it does**:
- Processes albums with `downloadStatus: "PENDING"`
- Downloads all tracks in each album with proper track numbering
- Downloads album artwork
- Creates organized folder structure: `Artist/Album --- Genre --- Year/`
- Runs in background and returns immediately

## Download Folder Structure

Downloaded files are organized as follows:

```
downloads/
├── Artist Name/
│   └── Album Title --- Genre --- Release Year/
│       ├── cover.jpg
│       ├── 1 - Track Title.flac
│       ├── 2 - Track Title.flac
│       └── ...
```

## Backend Services

The backend is organized into several services in the `be/` directory:

### Database Layer (`be/infra/database/`)
- **Models**: Define database schema for artists, albums, tracks, genres, labels
- **Repositories**: Data access layer with CRUD operations
- **Connection**: Database connection and configuration

### Business Logic (`be/services/`)
- **`musicMetadata.service.ts`**: Handles searching and storing metadata
- **`albumDownload.service.ts`**: Manages complete album downloads
- **`musicDownload.service.ts`**: Handles individual track downloads  
- **`musicUrl.service.ts`**: Generates download URLs from Qobuz

## API Endpoints Reference

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/get-music` | GET | Search Qobuz catalog |
| `/api/get-album` | GET | Get album details |
| `/api/get-artist` | GET | Get artist information |
| `/api/get-releases` | GET | Get artist releases |
| `/api/store-music-metadata` | POST | Store search results in database |
| `/api/download-music` | GET | Get direct download URL for a track |
| `/api/download-tracks` | POST | Process pending track downloads |
| `/api/download-albums` | POST | Process pending album downloads |

## Workflow

1. **Search & Store**: Use `/api/store-music-metadata` to find and store music metadata
2. **Download**: Use `/api/download-albums` to download complete albums with artwork
3. **Monitor**: Check the `downloads/` folder for organized music files

## Status Tracking

The system tracks download status for both albums and tracks:
- `PENDING`: Ready for download
- `PROCESSING`: Currently downloading  
- `SUCCESS`: Downloaded successfully
- `FAILED`: Download failed

## Quality Settings

Downloads default to highest quality (FLAC 24-bit when available). Quality options:
- `27`: Hi-Res (24-bit/up to 192kHz)
- `7`: CD Quality (16-bit/44.1kHz)
- `6`: MP3 320kbps
- `5`: MP3 320kbps (alternative)

Commit message:

Update README.md to include project disclaimer and visual branding

README.md, after:

# Qobuz-DL
![Qobuz-DL](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45896382-1764-4339-824a-b31f32991480)

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This repository does not contain any copyrighted material, or code to illegaly download music. Downloads are provided by the Qobuz API and should only be initiated by the API token owner. The author is **not responsible for the usage of this repository nor endorses it**, nor is the author responsible for any copies, forks, re-uploads made by other users, or anything else related to Qobuz-DL. Any live demo found online of this project is not associated with the authors of this repo. This is the author's only account and repository.

A web-based music downloader for Qobuz with a modern UI and database storage for metadata management.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js application with React components
- **Backend Services** (`be/`): Core business logic and database operations
- **API Routes** (`app/api/`): REST endpoints for frontend-backend communication
- **Database**: SQLite with Drizzle ORM for metadata storage

## Getting Started

Before you can use Qobuz-DL, you need to change the .env file in the root directory. The default configuration will NOT work. QOBUZ_APP_ID and QOBUZ_SECRET must be set to the correct values. To find these you can use [this tool](https://github.com/QobuzDL/Qobuz-AppID-Secret-Tool). Additionally, in order to download files longer than 30 seconds, a valid Qobuz token is needed. This can be found in the localuser.token key of localstorage on the official [Qobuz website](https://play.qobuz.com/) for any paying members.
### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm or yarn
- Qobuz account credentials

### Installation

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env.local` file with your database configuration:

```env
DB_URL=file:./local.sqlite
DB_AUTH_TOKEN=your_token_if_using_remote_db
```

### Running the Application

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Usage

### 1. Download Metadata

Before downloading songs, you need to fetch and store metadata in the database.

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/store-music-metadata`

**Query Parameters**:
- `q` (required): Search query string

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/store-music-metadata?q=pink%20floyd"
```

**What it does**:
- Searches Qobuz for the given query
- Stores artists, albums, genres, labels, and tracks in the database
- Returns statistics about stored items
- Fetches up to 500 items per batch and continues until all results are processed

**Response**:
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "message": "Search results stored successfully",
    "stats": {
      "artists": 5,
      "genres": 3,
      "labels": 8,
      "albums": 25,
      "tracks": 250
    }
  }
}
```

### 2. Start Song Downloads

Once metadata is stored, you can start downloading the actual audio files.

#### Option A: Download Individual Tracks

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/download-tracks`

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/download-tracks"
```

**What it does**:
- Processes all tracks with `downloadStatus: "PENDING"` 
- Downloads each track individually to organized folders
- Updates track status to `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`

#### Option B: Download Complete Albums (Recommended)

**Endpoint**: `POST /api/download-albums`

**Body Parameters**:
- `albumCountToDownload` (required): Number of albums to process

**Example**:
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/api/download-albums" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"albumCountToDownload": 5}'
```

**What it does**:
- Processes albums with `downloadStatus: "PENDING"`
- Downloads all tracks in each album with proper track numbering
- Downloads album artwork
- Creates organized folder structure: `Artist/Album --- Genre --- Year/`
- Runs in background and returns immediately

## Download Folder Structure

Downloaded files are organized as follows:

```
downloads/
├── Artist Name/
│   └── Album Title --- Genre --- Release Year/
│       ├── cover.jpg
│       ├── 1 - Track Title.flac
│       ├── 2 - Track Title.flac
│       └── ...
```

## Backend Services

The backend is organized into several services in the `be/` directory:

### Database Layer (`be/infra/database/`)
- **Models**: Define database schema for artists, albums, tracks, genres, labels
- **Repositories**: Data access layer with CRUD operations
- **Connection**: Database connection and configuration

### Business Logic (`be/services/`)
- **`musicMetadata.service.ts`**: Handles searching and storing metadata
- **`albumDownload.service.ts`**: Manages complete album downloads
- **`musicDownload.service.ts`**: Handles individual track downloads  
- **`musicUrl.service.ts`**: Generates download URLs from Qobuz

## API Endpoints Reference

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/api/get-music` | GET | Search Qobuz catalog |
| `/api/get-album` | GET | Get album details |
| `/api/get-artist` | GET | Get artist information |
| `/api/get-releases` | GET | Get artist releases |
| `/api/store-music-metadata` | POST | Store search results in database |
| `/api/download-music` | GET | Get direct download URL for a track |
| `/api/download-tracks` | POST | Process pending track downloads |
| `/api/download-albums` | POST | Process pending album downloads |

## Workflow

1. **Search & Store**: Use `/api/store-music-metadata` to find and store music metadata
2. **Download**: Use `/api/download-albums` to download complete albums with artwork
3. **Monitor**: Check the `downloads/` folder for organized music files

## Status Tracking

The system tracks download status for both albums and tracks:
- `PENDING`: Ready for download
- `PROCESSING`: Currently downloading  
- `SUCCESS`: Downloaded successfully
- `FAILED`: Download failed

## Quality Settings

Downloads default to highest quality (FLAC 24-bit when available). Quality options:
- `27`: Hi-Res (24-bit/up to 192kHz)
- `7`: CD Quality (16-bit/44.1kHz)
- `6`: MP3 320kbps
- `5`: MP3 320kbps (alternative)
